Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
- Taking a break
already. eh. Nathaniel?
- Yes. sir.
Been out in those fields
since early this morning.
- I see.
How are those crops looking.
now those floods passed us by?
- Some parts good.
Some parts poorly. sir.
- Behaving poorly?
- Yes. sir. because of
those floods you mentioned.
- Those crops have plenty
of time to recover.
- Yes. sir. they might.
- They might?
You better hope they might.
or it comes outta your hide.
- We all working on it. sir.
- Nathaniel. you remember
them whuppings I used
to give you when you
let your people slide.
I know it's been a long time.
but those whuppings can
come back. you hear me?
- Yes. sir.
- Okay then.
- Did Nathaniel do
something wrong. Daddy?
- Not really.
- Why you treat him like that?
- Wade. you gotta learn
how to treat these folks.
Put the fear in them.
Don't worry. I'll teach you.
- Nathaniel. I told you
this was gonna happen
if you didn't keep things right!
- Yes. sir.
- What you doing out?
- I heard you yelling. wanted
to make sure you were okay.
- Hurt. but I'll be all right
in a few days. I reckon.
- Why'd my daddy
hit you like that?
- That's just what
he does. Wade.
- Can I get you something?
- No no.
You shouldn't be
here. It's just ...
- It's just that what?
- One day. way off. you'll
be running this place.
I want you to
promise me something.
- Okay.
- Promise me you
gonna treat my people
better than your daddy did.
- I promise.
- Thank you. Now
get on back home.
- Okay.
- Is something
wrong. Master Wade?
I figured you'd be outside
enjoying this fine weather.
- Everything's okay.
I was just thinking.
- Well. it must be
some powerful thinking
if you had to come
in here to do it?
- Sarah. when you
promise something.
do you always have
to keep that promise?
- I suppose you
should try. Wade.
Somebody's promise
is their word.
and keeping their word
is very important.
- I know. It's hon.
hon. honorable.
- That's right.
If you don't mind me asking.
who'd you make the promise to?
- Nathaniel.
Nathaniel?
From the village?
- Yes. ma'am.
- What was the promise
you made. Master Wade?
- Don't tell my pa.
- Oh. I won't.
- Last night. I saw him
beating on Nathaniel.
giving him a real hard beating.
- Did he know you were there?
- Uh-uh.
I saw Nathaniel later.
and he was hurt.
- What did Nathaniel
have to say to you?
- He asked me to promise
not to hurt his people.
- Do you think you can keep
that promise. Master Wade?
- I think I probably should.
- Sir. supper should
be ready in an hour.
- Thank you. Sarah.
I saw you and my son speaking
in the sitting room earlier.
- Yes. sir. we were talking
about keeping promises.
that kinda thing.
- What promise did he not keep?
- Oh. well. he doesn't know
if it'll be kept or not.
- I believe I know
what this is about.
You do. sir?
- Yeah. he took a
liking to my new rifle.
and I promised I'd get
him one just like it.
- Oh. I see.
- Problem is. he's
a mite small still
for a gun of that caliber.
- Sir. may I suggest
the general store?
- What for?
- They have a fine
selection of toy guns
that almost look
like the real ones.
- That might buy
me a year or two?
- Would you like me
to pick up a couple?
I know you're busy.
- If you don't mind.
- Yes. sir.
- I always tell him. a
man's word is his currency.
You can't break your word.
- Wade. Preston. y'all
about ready in there?
That'll do.
Preston. you aint going to
battle with your bare feet.
- I'm still getting
my boots shined.
You might
as well come in and see
what kinda mischief
we're getting into.
- Well look at that.
my three handsome men.
Tell me. Wade. what
do we have here?
- I'm the colonel. and
Wade is the aide-de-camp
to General Johnston.
Preston is my aide-de-camp.
- That's wonderful.
What is an aide-de-camp?
- We tell them what
to do. and they go out
and tell everybody
else what to do.
- Do you boys think
you can handle that?
- Yes. ma'am.
- So where are y'all
heading off to?
- Well we're not 100% sure.
We think it's Virginia.
- Well dinner's almost ready.
so we better get in there.
- Men. I have asked
you here today
to tell you about my family.
And I wanna tell you a
little bit about myself.
I am Colonel Wade Hampton.
My grandfather was in
the Revolutionary War.
served with a man named
Harry Lighthorse Lee.
You may not know him now.
but you will know his son.
Robert E. Lee. he
is your commander.
My father rode with a man by
the name of Andrew Jackson
in the Battle of New Orleans.
He actually carried
the victory message
from the battlefield
to the White House.
My heart and soul is
in South Carolina.
You must watch everything
on the battlefield.
because your life depends on it.
There will be hand-to-hand
combat. which you will learn.
There will be snipers
shooting above you.
There will be artillery
fire over your head.
Do not let this scare you.
I want you to go out there
and give them your all.
I want you to be tough as nails.
I want you be strong as steel.
I want you to go out
there and I want you
to kill some Yankees.
Gentlemen. this
will be an endeavor
that you are soon to begin.
Thank you for being here today.
and thank you for your service.
South Carolina depends on you.
- This looks like as
good a place as any.
Hm. thought there
mighta been a crowd.
- Is there a schedule
of some kind?
- It's a battle.
Lizzie. a real battle.
- Someone's walking
around down there.
- I see cannon.
- Well I'll be.
- What color are
those men wearing?
- Looks like blue.
- Is that our side?
- I believe the Army
of the Confederacy
will be wearing gray.
from what I've seen.
- Well I hope it starts soon.
- It'll start soon.
now just relax.
Good morning.
- Good morning. is this where
the battle's supposed to be?
- Yes. it is.
- We've been here
for a while now.
Nothing's happened yet.
- We've been here forever.
- Oh now. we've only been
here a couple of hours.
There's a lot of troop
movement down there.
- What are you folk doing here?
We're here
to watch the battle.
- Where are you from?
- We're from Manassas.
right down the road a bit.
It was a very pleasant
ride here this morning.
- We're from just outside
of Washington City.
- Y'all are from Washington?
- Ladies and gentlemen.
I do not believe
you comprehend the gravity
of these circumstances.
Right down the hill. I have
established a field hospital
where I will be tending
wounded very shortly.
- That's why we're here.
When does it start?
- This is not a game or a play.
Two armies will be
attacking each other.
You are endangering
your own lives.
- Finally.
- All of you folk. all of you.
need to leave here immediately.
- Doesn't she understand?
That's what we came here for.
- Don't worry.
If it gets too rough.
we'll bugger out.
- Is this the way
it's supposed to look?
- I can't tell who's
commanding the field.
- Apparently. no one can.
This is a perfect example
of how not to follow orders.
- Ma'am.
- Good afternoon. Colonel.
I shall fetch the doctor.
- Colonel Hampton.
Just get here. sir?
- Just a bit ago. they
been keeping your busy?
- We're maintaining control.
- The wounded
arrive sporadically.
How's the battle going?
- It's fixing to get worse.
- My guess. it's about to
get a lot more ferocious.
What
makes you say that?
Hampton Legion's here.
- I hope you can
end this quickly.
- Well we'll end this all right.
- They sure sound confident.
- We'll have to make
more accommodations.
Christine. the colonel
anticipates more wounded.
- Right now?
Soon.
- I will get to the
well for more water.
- What makes you think
you can do anything
with that mess out there?
- We just got a gun.
Our brand-new
Enfield rifles from England.
- They won't know what hit them.
- Y'all just remember.
Hampton Legion's here now.
We'll protect you.
Ma'am.
- Those horses are magnificent.
- I think Daniel's
in the cavalry.
- That's right.
- Do you know
someone down there?
- Yes. my husband.
- Your husband's
fighting out there?
- Yes.
- No wonder you
came to see this.
What color is he wearing?
- He's wearing blue.
- Well. we're here supporting
the Army of the Confederacy.
under the command
of General Johnston.
- Okay.
- Do you hear that?
- Those big guns
sure are powerful.
- Well. that officer is
certainly doing his part.
- Why aren't the men responding?
- Many of them are
going home next week.
I knew these short-term
enlistments were a bad idea.
- What a mess.
- They're all green.
both ours and theirs.
- What the hell just happened?
Why are we losing so many men?
- The enemy's carrying
a new regimental flag.
- I believe that's
South Carolina.
- Doctor. you need to
take a look at this.
- Christine. come quickly.
Doctor. please wash your hands
before you touch his face.
Colonel. you need
to put this in your report.
- I'll do it. I'll do it.
Looks like I didn't give
y'all too much to work with.
- We have set up stations
all through the house
for the wounded soldiers.
We are trying to keep them
as comfortable as possible.
- Christine. you can head
back to the house now.
But when you're finished
in there. please come back
and help me with the
soldiers in the tent.
- Yes. I should be
finished in an hour or so.
- How'd this happen?
- We were in the heat of
battle. I didn't feel a thing.
- You'll have to forgive Mary.
She's a little headstrong.
But she's got a
lot of experience.
- Nothing to forgive.
- Our hospitals are
getting overwhelmed. sir.
Should we pull back?
- We are here for a reason.
The men have to get
used to the idea
that this is what
war looks like!
- What are you folk
still doing here?
- The children don't
wanna leave yet.
- My husband's in this.
I'm not leaving till
I know he's okay.
- Do you know what this is?
- Is that real blood?
- Of course it is.
What else would it be?
- I have spent the
entire afternoon
tending to injured soldiers.
Many had surgery. and
some did not survive.
Now my hospital is about
100 yards down there.
and it's only about 100 yards
away from the battlefield.
I will have many more
wounded soldiers to patch up.
and I do not want to have to
spend time tending to civilians
who were too foolish to
get out of harm's way.
- I think we need to go. John.
- All right. well. we'll
pack things up then.
- You have been warned.
And that goes for you too.
- Lizzie. Levi. help pick up.
- Well. hold on
just a minute now.
Another few minutes
won't hurt anything.
- Casualties are heavy. Colonel.
- I'm sure it's the same
on the other side. Major.
Our men signed up for this
of their own free will.
- I don't believe they knew what
they were getting
themselves into.
- What the hell
y'all doing here?
Don't kill us.
- Get the hell out of here!
It aint time for a picnic!
Come on.
Come on!
- Did you see that?
Our men pushed their cavalry
all the way back into the woods!
- Looks like they scared off
that group of spectators.
- Spectators?
What are spectators doing here?
They have no business!
- Sir.
- Kirkland. I heard you
was here. What happened?
- Yanks shot my horse
out from under me.
Bullet grazed my head. but my
horse took three hard hits.
Poor thing slid sideways
for several yards.
My leg got trapped under him.
- What's the damage. Nurse?
- That wound on his
head is still bleeding.
but it did not
puncture his skull.
He was quite fortunate.
Another half-inch and it
would have blown his head off.
That leg is the serious injury.
- Busted up pretty
bad. she said.
- Broken in four places.
We set it as best we could.
- Does it hurt much. Sergeant?
- It was absolutely horrid.
till these nice ladies
took care of me.
- Our morphine supply
is adequate at present.
But I don't know how
long it will last
if these battles continue.
- Sarge. don't you
worry about it.
We'll make sure you get
home to your family.
- Absolutely not. sir.
Soon as I can walk again.
I'll be back in the fight.
- That could be a very
long time. Sergeant.
- Kirkland. it's probably
best that you recover at home.
instead of being dragged
around who knows where.
Once you feel you can ride.
we'll get you a fresh horse.
- As long as you're
in the fight. sir.
I'll be in the fight.
- Sergeant. I'll check
on you as soon as I can.
Nurse. how long do
you think it'll be
before he can ride again?
- I don't know if he'll ever
even be able to walk again.
And if he does. it will be
with a cane at the very least.
- I understand.
- Did you find out why that
company of our infantry
just walked off the field?
- Heard tell they were
headed back to Washington.
General direction anyway.
- Washington?
That's over 20 miles from here.
It would have been
so lovely of them
to inform us of
their destination.
- I don't think they
care anymore. sir.
- This is desertion.
I want their officer
and every man. ow!
Ow!
- Colonel!
- Ow. oh. please
don't touch that arm.
I've been shot in the elbow.
- Are you sure it's the elbow?
- Yes. I'm sure it's the elbow.
- Let's get you to the hospital.
- Good afternoon. Sergeant
Major. how may I help you?
- Caught a piece of something.
Shrapnel. I don't
know. or something.
- Have a seat. Let's
take a look at it.
I can fix that up for
you. Does it hurt much?
- What do you think?
- Mary!
- I'm coming. Christine.
This looks serious.
- So is mine.
Sergeant Major.
this man has a bullet in him.
Yours is not life-threatening.
Please be patient.
- I aint trying to
cause no trouble here!
- I hope not.
- What I mean is. we
supposed to be first
when it comes to medical.
- Did you not just
hear me tell you
that this man has a
life-threatening injury?
- I'm just telling you the
way it's supposed to be.
- Sergeant Major. Mary
is very busy right now.
and she is the only
one here at present
qualified to do
what she is doing.
So I would suggest. you
allow us to proceed.
and at the proper
time. we will find you.
Thank you.
- Thank you.
- I didn't see you
eat much today.
You must keep up your strength.
- It has been a chaotic day.
far busier than any of us
could have anticipated.
- A long battle. and
so many casualties.
Do you think they
were expecting this?
- No I don't.
It was certainly more
than the picnic crowd
could have anticipated.
- What were they thinking?
- They were thinking it
was going to be quick
and easy. and it
will be neither.
These politicians have no
idea what they've started.
- So. who did you see today
that tickled your fancy?
- You mean men.
- Of course I mean men.
So many fine
specimen here today.
- Spoken like the school
teacher you are. Christine.
But I'm not looking for
another husband right now.
- Well I must admit that I am.
Surely one of these
strapping officers
would love a fine German wife.
So who did you find interesting?
- I will tell you who I respect.
It's that Colonel Hampton.
Why so?
- For one thing.
he's very wealthy.
- Oh. I like him already.
- He's quite married. my dear.
But the reason I
respect him so much is
that he financed his
entire operation himself.
that army he calls
Hampton's Legion.
Did he now?
- Yes. and I have done
something similar.
though not quite
such a grand scale.
- What do you mean?
- My field hospital. I
paid for everything myself.
- I had no idea.
So. what do you hope to
reap from your investment?
A political appointment perhaps?
- If women could
only hold office.
You know. I would be
happy to get the vote.
But as a nurse.
you know my concern
has been with saving lives.
And this is one
arena where I can put
my concerns into action.
So you
will continue to do this?
- Yes. as long as it's needed.
And I think it will be
needed for a very long time.
- And I will help. if
that meets your approval.
- Of course it does. You
were invaluable here today.
We need to show these
men that nursing
is a profession for
respectable women.
- What's the matter with
this soldier here. ma'am?
I noticed the blue coat.
- Yes. General. he
was bleeding profusely
and probably would
not have survived
if he had tried to reach
the Federal hospital.
- What's your name. Soldier?
- Francis Peffer. Private.
19th Indiana Infantry.
United States Army.
- All righty. if you
wanna play that game.
Wade Hampton. General.
Confederate States of America.
Something you don't understand
about that. Trooper?
- The way I see it.
you're all outlaws.
Outlaw leadership.
Outlaw government.
- You might wanna consider
that these outlaws
just saved your life.
- Ladies. I am indebted
to you. for your service.
General?
- Yes. Private.
- Sir. if you don't
mind me asking.
what's going to happen to me?
- Well. we got a good many
prisoners on both sides now.
I would say that we're due
for a prisoner exchange.
But don't hold me to that.
- Thank you. sir.
And I am a volunteer.
- I am too.
- I believe there's
something you wanted to talk
with me about
concerning Sharpsburg.
- Yes. General. my scouts
have turned up a way
through the woods that would
save us a lotta trouble.
- What exactly would we be
moving through the woods?
- Cavalry.
I'm not so sure
that's realistic.
- Dismounted cavalry.
No heavy guns. so we don't
bring the horses in first.
That'll put us right on
the rear of the Yankee camp
and still give us the
element of surprise.
- As you know. I tend to favor
a frontal assault
in these situations.
- Which I would understand
if troop strength was equal.
However. McLellan may have
up to twice our number
if you count his reserves.
- He may not bring
in his reserves.
So. I think this
through-the-woods
idea is untried.
And with as much
as we have to risk.
I just can't support it.
- Corporal Jones. you're
going to have to stay still
while I change this. or you
are going to keep bleeding.
- It hurts! It hurts so much!
- Nurse. what's
the problem here?
- General. a bullet went
through this man's chest.
We don't believe it
struck his heart.
but he must calm
himself or he will die.
- Corporal?
- General. sir.
- You got to do what the
nurses tell you. Soldier.
- General. sir.
The pain. horrible.
- General. we have
run out of morphine.
We have a little
laudanum left. Christine.
This will have to do.
- Please listen. Corporal.
This will help the pain.
but you must stay still.
- General. these weapons
are tearing our men apart.
- 57 caliber. large bullets.
- These bullets rip
right through them.
The exit wounds are ungodly.
- Well. coulda been worse.
Coulda been canister shot.
I've heard of it.
What exactly is it?
- They take the round
balls. put them in a can.
seal it up. put a
cannonball on top. fire it.
it explodes and rains
down on the troops.
- That is savage.
Yes it is.
- Would you use
something like that?
- Ma'am. I'd use anything
I could to win this war.
- I was right about one thing.
He didn't bring up a
lot of his reserves.
- No. sir.
- Casualties were
extremely high.
on both sides. I might add.
We just simply can't
afford to engage
in a situation like this again.
- So we are disengaging our
adventure into Maryland?
- Yeah. we are.
- Nurse Wilkins?
- Good afternoon. General.
Were you looking for someone?
- I was. you.
- Very well. how
may I be of help?
- I may have some
unfortunate news for you.
We need
no more of that.
What have you heard?
- The president. Jefferson
Davis. has decreed
that all hospitals
become military hospitals
and ran by a officer.
- An officer?
What is the purpose of that?
- I would suggest
to hurry up supplies
and to maintain order.
This does not
diminish our gratitude
for everything you have
done. Nurse Wilkins.
- I have an idea.
- And what might that be?
- May I suggest that
you commission me?
Then I can continue
to administer
the hospital as an officer.
- Well. uh.
I don't know about that.
- This arrangement would
be of great benefit
to the Army of the Confederacy.
You do understand that?
- Yes I do. but like me.
you pay for your whole
arrangement. but--
- I am also a
professional nurse.
When I was in London. I attended
Miss Florence Nightingale's
Academy of Nursing.
That is where I
learned the importance
of hygiene and sanitation.
That is why I insist
that my doctors wash
their hands between
every patient.
and why my hospital
has the highest
successful recovery rate.
I am immensely qualified
for this position.
- Of that. I have no doubt.
But the Army of
Northern Virginia
does not commission
female officers.
- Females in this war
have excelled at tasks
that they were once
considered unfit for.
Men need to acknowledge this.
You yourself are acutely aware
of how much I am
needed out here.
- Let me think on
this for just a bit.
- So what you're telling
me. General Hampton.
is that we're running
outta everything?
- I'm not as concerned
about my legion.
As you know. I pay
for everything.
- I continue to commend
you highly for that.
- Thank you.
But I can't do
that beyond my men.
My concern is with the units
that I'm fighting alongside.
- I understand that.
So what do you suggest?
- Well. we need to stop
losing so many soldiers.
- And how would we do that?
- One way is to
substantially increase
the recovery rate
at field hospitals.
- Same question.
how do we do that?
- By working with
somebody who's done it.
- All right. who's he?
She.
- A nurse?
- Her name is Mary Wilkins.
I first saw her
operation at Manassas.
She runs her own field
hospital. and right now.
her survival rate is 97%.
- That's wonderful.
So what's the problem?
Does she wanna leave?
- General. you may remember
that Jefferson Davis decreed
that all field hospitals must
have an officer in charge.
- Okay. I remember
something about that. yeah.
- I don't wanna lose Miss
Wilkins or her operation.
I believe we need her out there.
and my officers
feel the same way.
- So what are you proposing?
- I'd like to forward a
letter to Jefferson Davis
requesting permission to
commission her in the army.
- General Hampton. I
would love to discuss this
with you at length. but
we've got so many matters
on the table. I
just don't have time
to talk about it right now.
- So I have your
support on this?
- For right now. yes.
So what else?
- I believe you
wanted to see me.
Have a seat. gentlemen.
What's on your mind?
- Well. sir. the sergeant
and the corporal here
got a idea they
wanna share with you.
- All right. let's have it.
- Yes. sir. the corporal
and I have been involved
in several special missions.
- Well. sir. most
of these missions
have been dreamed up
by the captain here.
- Special missions. huh?
Do I know about these
special missions. Captain?
- Well. some you do
and some you don't.
- I see.
Certainly. do tell.
- We've conducted several
missions behind enemy
lines on the supply chain.
- These raids have
been very effective.
- Well. sometimes it's just
me and Sergeant Causey.
and sometimes ...
- Sometimes what?
- Sometimes. I go with him.
- Why?
- On account of he's
pretty good at it.
- We make a pretty good team.
- A team?
Just you three in this team?
- Sometimes we
bring sharpshooters.
- Sometimes. explosive experts.
- How long has
this been going on?
- About a year.
- Really? And when was you
gonna get around to telling me?
- This evening.
- Okay. fellas. what
do y'all want from me?
- We're giving the group a name.
Just wanna let you know
in case you hear about it.
- Oh well. thanks for
keeping me informed.
What'd you come up with?
- Band of Confederates.
- If the captain here
is involved with any
of these shenanigans. I
wanna know all the way.
Good. now I have an
announcement for you.
We been blessed to work
with the best nurse
in this here Confederate Army.
and that would be Mary Wilkins.
- She's good.
- Recently. our president.
Jefferson Davis. has decreed
that those that run our
hospitals now be officers.
Of course. that would put Miss
Wilkins outta the running.
Let me ask y'all. do we
wanna lose Miss Wilkins?
- No.
- No. sir.
- Today. I received a
letter that commissions
Mary Wilkins as an officer.
- This ever been done before?
- No it has not. but
it took a piece of work
to get this done.
I'm presenting this letter
to Mary in a few minutes.
and I would love for
y'all to join me.
- Well certainly. sir.
- Okay. let's do it.
- Something wrong. Sergeant?
- Well. sir. I'm not one
to complain. but um ...
- Yes. Soldier?
- Sir. I believe I've been
qualified for promotion
for several years now.
I'm just wondering. why
have I been passed over?
- I would need a letter of
recommendation. Sergeant Major.
- I would do it.
- Find another
officer to sign off.
- You?
- Can't be me. You gotta
find somebody else.
- Okay. sir. thank you.
- Mary Wilkins. for
outstanding service in support
for the Army of Northern
Virginia. you have been
commissioned to the
rank of captain.
Is there anything you'd
like to say. Mary?
- I sincerely appreciate
this opportunity. sir.
and I am honored to
accept this commission.
- You're supposed to salute.
- As a duly commissioned
officer. I would like
to recommend
Sergeant Major Causey
for promotion to officer rank.
to be determined by
General Hampton. of course.
- Well hell. I think
this is gonna work out.
- And Lord. please watch
over our house servant.
Sarah Baker. who left this
world to join you last month.
Christmas. 1863.
The dinner will be
ready in a few minutes.
and I have really been
looking forward to this.
Every year since
this war started.
we've had a special guest
for Christmas dinner.
This year. it's
Sergeant Major Causey.
- Thank you for having me here.
- One of my finest
cavalry soldiers.
He's been with me from
Manassas to Gettysburg.
and he's still with me.
- It's been a privilege
serving with you. General.
- So. Sergeant. tell
me about your people.
Where are you from?
- A small town right
up the road. Brunson.
- The sergeant here can be a
real terror on the battlefield.
- He fights like a wild animal.
- Well. I don't
know about all that.
- Boys. you're
embarrassing the sergeant.
Do tell me about your horse.
- Yes. ma'am. His name's Walker.
He's been with me
a good long while.
- They both been
shot a couple times.
- Really?
- Thankfully. it didn't
hit anything vital.
- I hope you brought your
appetite with you. Sergeant.
You're in a for a real treat.
- That's what I'm told.
- See anything. General?
- I seen a few skirmishes
over that way earlier.
Here. you take a look.
- General. we're ready to go.
- Preston!
- Preston.
- Stay with me. Son.
Stay with me. Son.
- I. I can't.
- Wade!
- Whoo.
Whoo. whoo!
- General. come on.
- Get him up on the table. boys.
Take that hat.
- Turn him over.
- All right. lay him up.
Let me get in here.
Oh. God.
- We gotta get him
up on this side here.
- Turn him over.
- This is bad.
It's not bleeding much. It
coulda been a lot worse.
- Were you hit too. General?
- I was not. but take
care of my boy Wade.
- You sure you're okay?
- I'm absolutely sure. ma'am.
I gotta get back. My other
son's on the battlefield.
He died. and I have
to get back to him.
- We can patch him up for you.
It will hurt. but we have
a little laudanum left.
He should pull through.
- Thank you. thank you so much.
My dearest Mary.
As I sit on the coast
of South Carolina.
looking out into all
of God's wondrous ways.
I take time to reflect.
The war is really not
going well for us.
I'm okay. The men are fine.
But. Mary. I have
some tragic news.
Our son Preston. our son Preston
was killed on a
battlefield today.
And Wade fell over Preston
to try to protect him
and was shot and
wounded in the back.
Now. Wade the
Fourth will be fine.
The doctors have told me that.
But he couldn't save Preston.
and he was shot down
right in front of me.
And it hurt me more than
it did when Frank died.
I mean. this was my son.
And. Mary. he'll
never come back again.
Say a prayer for him in church.
I wish you were here. Mary.
Give my love to the girls.
There will be brighter days.
I'm sure of it.
All the best. and
I love you. Wade.
- General Hampton.
- Yes?
- I heard about the
loss of your son.
Please accept my deepest
sympathy and condolences.
Is there anything that
I can do to help you?
- When this started. how long
did you think this would last?
- What. this engagement
at Burgess Mill?
- No. sir. I mean
the war itself.
.
after talking with a
lotta people at the start.
we thought it might
last up to a year maybe.
- I believe you're correct.
I just keep thinking.
If the war would have
lasted a year. maybe two.
Preston would still be with me.
- Have you thought
anything about going home
for Christmas this year?
- I haven't given
much thought to it.
It's not even November yet.
- I think it might
be a good idea
to consider going home and
spending time with your family.
- Is that an order. sir?
- Wade. it's not an
order. not at all.
It's just a suggestion
from one old friend.
who's concerned. to another.
- I think it's a good idea.
- Wade. you haven't
eaten any of your dinner.
- I'm not really
hungry. Mary. thank you.
- And you. Son. you've
hardly eaten anything at all.
- I'm just not
hungry yet. Mother.
You're not hungry
for Christmas dinner?
- I'm sorry. Mother.
I guess. I guess I'm
just missing Preston.
- It's all right.
Wade. we all are.
- Well. the good news is.
there's been a shipment
of toys that have
arrived in the village.
You can go and pass those out
to the children this evening.
- Wade. would you
handle that for me?
- Sure.
- No. absolutely not.
It needs to be you.
It's tradition.
Besides. there's
someone in the village
that's been asking for you.
- Who?
- Nathaniel.
He's in very poor health.
and they don't think
he's going to make
another Christmas.
- I don't. I don't know.
All right. let's go make
some children happy.
and then I'll go see Nathaniel.
- Good evening. sir.
- Good to see you. Nathaniel.
I understand you're
not feeling too well.
- Yes. sir.
I believe my time
is coming to an end.
- What can I do for you?
- Just wanna thank you. sir.
- Whatever for?
- I was told you
gave all the children
something for Christmas.
- Of course. we been doing
that for a long while.
- That was very
good of you. sir.
Do you remember
the promise?
- Promise? What
promise would that be?
- An old promise.
You was just a little boy.
- I believe I
remember that promise.
- Maybe 40.
50 years ago.
- I believe I promised
you that I'd treat
your people better
than my daddy did.
- That's right. You
kept that promise.
- Do you know why I
kept that promise?
- Why. sir?
- Because. considering
it's the right thing to do.
I've always considered
you my friend.
Goodbye. my friend.